HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
It is a layer 7 protocol - Application layer  (App Pres Sess Trans Netw Data Phy)
It enables client browser to communicate with a web server 
We can get information from server and also send data to server and update data in server.
We do this using HTTP requests like GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc.

HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2 :
-------------------

HTTP1.1 :
--------
1. HTTP1.1 was created in 1997 and predecessors were HTTP1.0 and HTTP0.9
2. All requests are sent in plain text form
3. This makes HTTP1.1 very vulnerable and insecure.
4. This plain text message must be sent as one continuous stream of data and 
the connection can not be used for anything else but transmitting that message until it is completed.
5. In the TCP connection established between client and server, Only one request is sent at a time 
and all other requests are blocked until the current request receives a response. 
This is called Head of Line blocking, which a drawback of HTTP1.1
6. Header information is repeated for every request 
7. A server only serves content to a client device if the client asks for it.
  ex., We request for a HTML file, which uses a JS file and also a CSS file. The HTML file is first sent 
  and the JS file / CSS file is sent later when requested
uses port TCP 80

HTTP2 :
-------
1. HTTP2 was created in 2015, developed over the SPDY protocol.
2. In HTTP2, requests and responses are send following a binary framing protocol.
3. HTTP2 is faster in handling huge resources and is more secure.
3. Data is packaged into frames i.e. they can be sent in multiple frames instead of one continuous data
4. In HTTP2. one TCP connection is used for multiple requests. This is called multiplexing 
5. In one TCP connection, multiple streams are established and multiple requests and responses are handled
6. Uses HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets. This helps in faster loading 
of a page as HPACK reduces volume of header data in each HTTP packet.
7. HTTP/2 allows the server to "push" content to a client before the client asks for it, saving time.
The server sends all the other files like CSS & JS without the request of the client using the PUSH frame.
uses port TCP 443, but will also be supported on port 80. Port 443 is secure as it uses encryption. 

HTTP2 offers content prioritizaion and is more efficient in handling huge resource volume than HTTP1.1.

